Roll for a short time after Simpson retired before I came here.
I guess there's a little gap in there.
I think Simpson maybe had been semi-retired or something the year before I came even.
But anyway, Howard Perry held that for an interim period there until I came here.
But no one, you know, really fully explained to my satisfaction what that position was.
General Simpson, I think, had a much better feel for it than anyone else.
He had done some of the negotiation with the faculty senate and others regarding this position.
But he told me that, you know, in a way I would,
was like a dean on certain matters, that that's the academic role, that's the academic chain, and that I reported up to the provost.
But again, you know, nobody said much about that, and I found that most of my business was done over here on the core side through Student Affairs.
That's where all the problems occurred.
The discipline problems, the pranks, and all of that, of course, was worked through the Student Services side.
But anyway, General Simpson helped get me squared away on all of that.
I would say, you know, my time was probably 85% on this commandant side and 10% or a little more maybe over here on the head of the School of Military Sciences.
I didn't find anybody else on campus that really understood that.
I'm not even sure any of the, well, when I would go to see the provost,
And later the, and he kind of deferred to the dean of faculties, I believe, on that for me to meet with.
You know, I found they really didn't know what I was doing and what this was all about.
It was kind of a mystery to them.
Now the presidents that you reported to were Mobley?
Vandiver for Dr. Vandiver.
And Dr. Mobley, Dr. Gage, and Dr. Bowen.
And Dr. Bowen.
Those four.
Right.
And the provost?
A fellow that... Richardson was here.
Yeah.
Herb Richardson was here.
Herb Richardson.
He's one I met with that...
But he became the chancellor, it seemed like, not long after I came here.
Was Gordon Eaton in there?
No.
Or Eaton was already gone?
Yes.
I'd heard a lot of good things about him, but I didn't serve under him.
Let's see, then the dean of faculties, Clint Phillips.
Clint Phillips.
He was one I, and the fellow that went over to Egypt.
McDonald?
McDonald.
Don McDonald.
He was the one that I first remember talking with.
He was pretty new in there, I believe, at the time, but he's one that I'm not sure had been fully briefed by anyone else what this head of the School of Military Sciences was all about.
He was, you know, a pleasant fella, but he kind of deferred on down to...fella now, tall.
I know him as well as I know my own name.
Can't call it a good man.
Doing what?
He's an associate provost now.
Bill Perry.
He kind of told me, well, work through Bill.
And I found Bill very receptive.
He succeeded Clint Phillips as dean of faculties.
First, Clint Phillips.
Clint, a good man, but I'm not sure he really...
understood this role that I had as head of the School of Military Sciences.
But Bill Perry, I found him, not that Clint and these others weren't receptive and have listened to me, but I found Bill Perry very, very helpful and willing to get involved with us.
Very highly of Bill.
He's been very good.
Describe John Colvis as the Chief Student Officer of Texas A&M.
I think I have a little of that on the tape back there somewhere, so I may be repeating myself a little bit, but John, from the first time I met him, seemed to be a very special kind of person, very understanding, very compassionate, very people-oriented.
Did he have any pet peeves?
John was a very even,
Very even man, very even tempered.
And one of his few avocations was golf.
Yes.
He loved to play golf and talked about it.
He was a big family man, talked about his family a lot, his wife.
But he was on the job 24 hours a day.
Just one thing I remember very well.
refused to pass all the work to someone else.
And perhaps that was a weakness, I mean, that he didn't delegate more because it caused him to work a lot harder.
And John never made excuses for having to work.
I never heard him complain about it, but I know he'd come to work at 6 o'clock in the morning or earlier, and he'd write all these letters and things and do...
do things that a lot of executives would assign someone else to do, but he was big on doing those things himself.
Not one that passed out a lot of extra work for people to do.
Didn't send a lot of memos and stuff like that.
Very accessible.
You know, I've called him in the middle of the night, and you know, that's the easiest person I've ever seen to call in the middle of the night, as far as being understanding.
That's a marvelous compliment.
You know, I'd apologize sometimes for having to call him about something in the middle of the night.
Oh no, no.
How good a match, I think I know the answer to this, how good a match was John Koldis
for what was needed as Texas A&M's chief student officer.
Well, I can't go back quite when he came, and I'm not familiar with the exact situation, but from all I've heard, you know, he was an excellent selection and match for that.
I can't think of anybody who would have done any better in the role that he had to play here down through the years.
He was dead serious about his interest in students and wanting to bring out the best of them and make sure that they had opportunities.
Very approachable.
Students could come see him.
I think he set the pace, and I think a lot of others have watched him over the years and tried to copy some of his traits, the way he deals with students, and others as well, but very kind and gentle.
I had another story there I was going to mention now.
It slipped my mind.
About him?
Yes.
But he worked long hours, never turned down an invitation, had a great relationship with mother's clubs, never turned down an invitation to go speak to a mother's club.
I remember one thing he told me, Tom, you know, you need to go to those things if you can.
And I traveled with him some, going to some of those, and we had good experiences, but later I had a lot of opportunities on my own to go speak to mother's clubs, but John was...
was super with those people.
He always seemed to find time to do all this, but it meant that he worked a lot of hours.
And he'd come in on Saturday morning and catch up.
His philosophy, and I agree with it a lot, I had a
I went to a commander's conference one time, and the chief of staff of the Air Force was there.
We were all senior commanders, but he was giving us a speech after dinner one night and giving us what to do and how to do our business.
He said, let me tell you guys, you don't need an office.
He says, you know, during the daytime, you're out where all the problems are.
You're going from place to place and you're dealing with issues and problems.
You're letting people know you're interested and you're finding out what the problems are and you take your paperwork home with you.
You do, you know, what you have to do, you do early and late.
During the daytime, you're out where the action is and where the people are.
Now, that's a little bit of an exaggeration, and he knew it too, but he was making a point of which I think is very good.
You know, the daytime is when the things are going on and when you can, if you're sitting there behind a desk spending most of your days as a chief operating officer,
I think a lot of time it's the wrong place to be.
Now during those years, Bob Wyatt was the chief of campus security.
What was it like to work with him?
real pleasure absolute pleasure uh... bob's the funniest guy one of the funniest guys i've ever seen and he does this summary i guess he still does it but uh... he does a monthly summary of all of the incidents and things that are called into security down there and he puts a funny twist on each one of them and it was hilarious reading that every month and some of them i could identify but he didn't use names but
I can identify because I remember when that one happened.
But Bob did some great work for us on some of the incidents and problems we had.
He was very skilled at handling these things.
And ceaseless energy.
Is that right?
Oh, yes.
Always upbeat.
Anytime you call him, he seemed to have time for you.
And I remember working some pretty tough cases with him, some that ended up in the courts and lie detector tests and on and on.
But Bob was always very helpful.
Never
pretended he didn't have time to listen to you or hear your problem or think it was ridiculous.
I just think that we're very fortunate here at A&M to have had Bob Wyatt as our head security man.
He knows his business.
He has a way with people.
Another thing, I remember a series of meetings
Back in 91, I believe it was, when we had all the issues involving women here, we had several complaints from women about discrimination, and some of them made the papers big time, and Dr. Mobley appointed a committee to look into all of this.
And we had countless meetings up there on the 10th floor, or what is it, 11th floor, whatever it was, 11th floor, I guess it was, conference room up there.
I don't know how many meetings I attended up there.
going over these things and what are we going to do and how are we going to handle this.
Bob was always a participant there, and I thought he probably offered better advice than anyone.
And he could relate to everyone on the staff from the president down.
He had an O.A.
with them like no one else I've ever seen here.
very smooth very respected but he could get his input in and he was always very honest about what he said you didn't have to kind of turpid or guess what bob meant he he was very honest in anything he reported some people kind of gloss over things or they'll put up a spin on it that uh...
that's not 100 percent honest but that's not bob but he's been a delight to work with and any events that we had that we required security help and all always most forthcoming i've been involved in early on here and and i and i would like to talk about that please just as a matter of record
When I came here in 87, inundated with everything that was going on and the ceremony of the fall football season, march-ins and visitors coming, parents, students and all, and every place I'd go around to visit, I'd find closets stuffed full of trophies and old plaques that go back to the 30s and 20s even, drill teams and
RVs and just all kind of things.
But they were all rusting away in closets.
And then when we'd have distinguished visitors come to look at us or visit with us, we didn't have a single place that I felt comfortable taking them in the Corps I'm talking about.
We had an old guard room that had been run down, dusty, muggy, moldy smelling.
I just didn't feel comfortable taking anyone there.
Certainly, the facilities we had in the Commandant's Office were not that good.
And it occurred to me that
You know, maybe in 10 years, it would be nice if we had some kind of a visitor center museum.
Here are all these trophies and honors and things that we've won, the rich history of the Corps, and it's nowhere displayed really in one place.
It'd be nice to have some kind of a facility.
And then, you know, to have some place that could use for meeting room or distinguished guests to come and look, be the focus for recruiting, that sort of thing, I thought it'd be nice to have that kind of facility.
I'd visited other places even before I came here and seen some of this.
Seemed like most places did have some kind of a visitor center.
I remember being at the Air Force Academy and, gosh, what a nice visitor center, quite a tourist attraction.
And I just remember that in the back of my mind.
I've been to West Point and seen some of their stuff.
And, you know, we got a rich history here, but we really don't have it open to and put together in any way that people can really see or something that we can use.
And the more I thought about that, the more I said, this is something we really need here.
But in the back of my head, I said it'd take at least 10 years to bring anything like that to fruition.
And I got involved with the Core Development Council, a group that had been formed a year or two before I came here.
Had some few prominent people as members of this Core Development Council.
And I think it was within a year after I came here, we were having a Core Development Council board meeting.
And I was giving them my little report on the status of the Corps.
And there were only about, you know, 12, 15 people all together in the room.
And I said to them, you know, gentlemen, and there was one lady, ladies and gentlemen, lady and gentlemen, there's an idea I'd just like to throw out to you.
It's my dream that in 10 years,
We might have some kind of a visitor facility that we could show off some of the history of the Corps and we could welcome visitors and do all that kind of stuff.
I gave them a little more than that, but just a dream and a vision that I have.
And there wasn't any real discussion.
It was a short briefing that I'd given them.
It was just one of several points.
Well, that night they had a cocktail party over at the Hilton for all of the Corps Development Council and their wives.
You know, there's 60, 70 people there all together.
And one of the members that heard me that day, Harvey Cash, I don't know if you remember that name or not.
Sure do.
Class of 33, I believe he was.
But Harvey, a very distinguished fellow, been with Texaco, had made gifts to A&M.
But he's a strong core supporter, very good friend of John Colas, John Meridale.
But we were standing there at that...
cocktail party that evening and Harvey came up to me and he said, Tom, let me tell you, you know, I agree with you on that idea you have about that visitor center.
He says, I think we ought to pursue that.
You know, he just jumped on and supported that idea 100%.
And he said, you know, I think here in the next, I believe he said 15 minutes, we ought to be able to
get $500,000 committed to this project.
Well, I said, wow.
You know, I thought to myself, I thought, what are you talking about?
And he said, yeah, we need to call some of these folks into the conversation here and get some commitments from them tonight.
Well, he called Ken Huddleston, Buddy Seawall.
Seemed like there was another one.
and was escapes me at the moment.
But anyway, Harvey said something about he would start it off, he would give, seemed like it was 100,000 himself.
He'd commit 100,000 to it.
Well, we didn't get 500,000, but within 10 minutes, I saw at least three people commit gifts that would total over 250,000 to this project, which sounded like a lot of money to me.
And I was just going, wow, I can't believe what's happening here.
But they all agreed that this was a worthy project and they would support me on this thing.
And so it became my responsibility then the next day to, you know, report to John and others, you know, what had heard and what had happened.
And suddenly I found myself the leader of a campaign.
And you know, how do we fund it?
You know, starting from scratch.
How do you get a project like this approved?
I was fairly new at the university and I learned all about facilities and planning and planning committees and all of this.
But it became my job and my mission to get that building built, to get it funded and built.
And everyone I talked to was so supportive of that when I'd brief them on the concept.
Bob Walker down at the foundation, he jumped on, yeah, you know, Aggies will give to this thing.
How much is it going to cost?
We didn't know.
It's going to be a good bid.
But we had to first get the regents to prove this thing, and you know, I had to draft minute orders and do all of these things.
You know, I was solo on this thing pretty much with their support, but there was nobody in the commons office knew anything about how to proceed with this idea.
And it was part of my dream and vision anyway, so I was glad to take the lead on this, but I got the opportunity to work with the foundation, with Bob Walker, with Facilities and Planning.
Ed Peel, when I briefed him on it, he jumped on it.
Great.
He was extremely helpful getting this thing.
He even built a POR and all this just right off the bat on his own.
And anyway, we went to the regents and briefed them, and the regents thought it was a good idea where you're going to put it, and we told them where we wanted to put it.
and people said well you're going to be taking green space there you know we don't want to lose green space and they said maybe we better look at where we're going to put this thing again so we hired a consulting firm to come in and look at locations and they confirmed where we thought where it is down there now yeah that's a good place you know how are we going to get this thing funded uh bob walker was very helpful and uh
Bob one day called me on the radio and said, Tom, meet me up in front of the building in five minutes.
I got Dr. Sam Sanders with me.
And I said, I want you to meet him.
Sanders had the gun collection over at MSC and that started a new relationship right there.
I could talk 30 minutes about Dr. Sam Sanders and that relationship.
We went over at the MSC and sat down and had coffee and talked a while and we talked about the gun collection.
Maybe the idea of moving the gun collection, it being a centerpiece in this new visitor center, and Sanders seemed interested in all this, and we had several meetings and all, and this worked.
He became very supportive of the idea and agreed to do roughly a million and a half gift toward this building, which he did later make good on.
He sold some.
He gave us a piece of land, I think, which we sold later.
But anyway, his was roughly a million and a half commitment to the building.
And that gave us the real go-ahead on the thing.
And we arranged to get a line of credit.
We thought it might take us four or five years to raise all the money for this thing.
But we got a line of credit to prove through the foundation to go ahead and press on.
We got an architect involved and went through all of those steps.
And, you know, we were, well, you know, we'd like to have this in there, this and this.
And long story, we ended up with that building done.
And I think we only made one or two interest payments before gifts overtook it all and we never had to pay a bit more interest.
That line of credit was really unnecessary.
About how long was it from the night that you described the dream
until you all moved into the building?
We moved into the building, dedicated on September the 12th, 1992.
We actually moved into the building, started moving in about February, March of 92.
It took roughly... Five years?
15 to 18 months to construct.
But how long was it?
When did you mention that this is an idea that I...
I'd say it was sometime in 88, maybe the fall of 88.
So four years.
So about four years from dream to completion and paid for it.
That's marvelous.
Dr. Sanders was a grand Aggie there and I had opportunity to meet him.
I remember
We wanted to do something special for him.
He was about 88 or 89 then and health was failing and he lived up in Memphis, Tennessee.
Did he make it to the dedication?
He did not make it.
We did have a groundbreaking ceremony.
There is a big picture down in the Corps Center.
Shows all of us with our shovels, and Dr. Sanders was there.
He was visiting the campus one day, and we hurriedly arranged a ceremony to have a groundbreaking ceremony so we could get him.
But it's a classic picture down there in the Corps Center.
It has several people in there, Ed Peel, Mobley, Dr. Mobley.
Dr. Sanders, Bob Walker, myself, and I don't remember.
I think Bob Smith, Robert Smith may have even been in there.
I don't know.
But anyway, we did get him here for that, but he went downhill after that.
We did in that December, last time I saw him alive, Dr. Mobley and Dr. Bill McCord were
out on a capital campaign visit to visit with a fellow that was head of the Tennessee Valley Authority in Knoxville, Tennessee.
And on the way back, we were in, Bob Walker was with us, and we were going to stop in Memphis to have breakfast with Dr. Sanders.
We wanted to present him a scroll that the regents had proved and some, a football sign and some things.
And I tagged along with him, and I went on this visit.
there in Knoxville, Tennessee, and we were flying on Bill McCord's Jetstar, which is a pretty nice way to travel.
Bill McCord, I don't know if you remember him or not, but he headed that last capital campaign, one of the chief fundraisers there.
But anyway, we flew on to Memphis the next morning and met Sanders and some of his, two or three of his staff people there at the airport, had a nice visit, made these presentations to him.
And he was so receptive.
But a man that was so kind and gentle, you can't believe it.
Just as white-haired as he could be.
But he came to A&M, lettered on the, he was a high jump champion, Southwest Conference high jump champion, did some other athletic things here.
But he was encouraged to go to Tulane to medical school.
He was a football coach that, I guess it was DX Bible, maybe.
I forget who it was.
They encouraged him to go to medical school.
And then some way it didn't work at Tulane.
He ends up at Tennessee, I guess it is.
But he became a well-known allergist in Tennessee.
But he refereed all the major bowl games sometime in his life.
He just had all kind of interest.
But he died that next spring.
following that December event we were attended in Memphis.
And Bob Walker and I flew up there and attended his funeral and all.
But Sanders is the guy that gave us the real stroke we needed to make this thing come true.
All the ideas that we had, many were incorporated and some were beyond the scope.
But it was a great thing when it opened.
It was my dream also that we would establish a Hall of Honor there in the Corps of Cadets Center, that each year we would induct a certain number into the so-called Corps Hall of Honor.
So we got that underway and inducted the first ones in 1993, and we've been doing that every year, and it's been a very high ceremony for these people inducted into the Hall of Honor, and that'll come up again this fall.
But, you know, most of those things down there, I lived through it all.
And, you know, I'm just an outsider now.
I go down there and I look at that and I watched every brick almost go up.
I was there on the job every day watching that with great pride and great anticipation.
But I think it's been a great boost for the Corps to have that place.
And...
Those first years, we'd had tremendous crowds.
On football weekends, there'd be wall-to-wall people in there, and they'd just stand around like that.
But, you know, after a while, I get kind of used to it, and it doesn't have the jazz that it once had.
But my concern now is that it needs to be updated, and we had a dream of interactive music.
displays and all of this sort of thing.
You've got to have a vision and a dream for that kind of stuff to make it come true, and then it's got to be maintained.
I learned a lot about museums.
They're not an easy thing to manage.
A lot I didn't know about them, but it's been a good thing, and my only heartbreak right now is that I don't see the
the resources to update it.
There's got to be new carpet and new paint and the bricks have to be kept level.
We started the brick campaign out in front there with the name Bricks.
That was a way to raise money.
And saw all of that develop and seen hundreds of people come there to see their name on their brick.
And through that brick program we've generated now a million and a half dollars in endowment for the Corps Center.
How marvelous.
All right, you helped to bring the Corps to modern days and that.
Are there any, looking in hindsight in those years you were Commandant, are there any oversights that Texas A&M made in the area for which you were responsible, any things we didn't do that now wish we had done?
I don't think of anything.
Oh, I can't say any oversights.
You know, I could say, well, you know, we should have put more money on this or that, but resources are quite limited.
Really, the university has been, in my opinion, pretty generous to the core.
Compared to when I came here, I think support through the university has increased significantly.
A lot more staff than we had back when I came.
A lot of it funded through university or state money.
The scholarship program, Robert Smith, helped us start the Commandant's Leadership Scholarship Program.
And I never will forget when he called me over one day and said, Tom, you know, we got this big pot of money from collegiate licensing.
And he says, I think the Corps is entitled to some of this for scholarships.
It's primarily scholarship money.
But he said, you know, if you could design a scholarship program, how would you do it?
Well, in a short meeting, he gave me a charge to go design a scholarship program.
And I went back.
I jumped all the way back to the office.
I couldn't wait to get started on this because it was going to be a juicy scholarship program.
And it is a tremendous program.